So now, let's talk a little bit about the course content.
What did we decide to include into this course?
So first, let's talk about what this course is not.
This course is not a course on deep learning.
We will touch on some of the concepts of deep learning.
You might learn something new about deep learning,
but we do not have the objective of teaching you
how deep learning works and how to build deep learning networks.
This is not a course on PyTorch or any other specific libraries.
We will be using PyTorch quite a bit.
We assume that you have some basic knowledge.
Really, if you take the tutorial course on PyTorch,
you will be well set up to be successful in this project,
but we do not intend to teach you how PyTorch works and how it does its magic.
This is not a course on high performance computing.
You might think that we are dealing with large data sets that
take a lot of memory and needs a large scale computing.
We will talk about some of the tricks and optimizations that
could be used to leverage distributed systems
but we will not go into much detail about that and we'll post
some links if you would like to research that further and lastly,
this is not a course on diagnostic medical imaging.
Mazen here will talk a little bit about how radiologists think and how radiologists
approach diagnosing from the 3D medical volumes but at the same time,
this is not a clinical course,
so we're not planning to teach you how to read a CT scan.
Which brings us to what is this course?
What is this about? Mazen, would you tell us?
Yes. I'll tell you a little bit about that.
So we're going to be introducing you to
biomedical imaging for software engineers and data scientists,
complete with a clinical motivation
and that's something that I'm going to take you through,
giving you the clinical background.
We'll also introduce some of the applications of
machine learning techniques to 3D medical imaging data.
You'll also get a perspective on end-to-end design of medical imaging AI systems.
It's not only important to develop algorithms,
but you'd be able to integrate them in a real world scenario.
So let's talk a little bit about the structure of this course.
How did we decide to set it up?
This course has four lessons in addition to this one,
which is the introduction and the final project.
In the first lesson, we will talk about
the clinical background and some of the physics of medical imaging.
In the second lessons, we will dive a little bit into the exploratory data analysis for
3D medical imaging data sets and we will talk about
the formats which are used to store and transmit medical imaging data.
In the next lesson,
we will dive a little bit into the topic of
machine learning and we will look at some of the machine learning algorithms.
We will train a little simple neural network and we will talk little bit
about some computer vision concepts like convolutions and in the next lesson,
we will talk about deploying machine learning algorithms in the real world.
We'll talk about some of the tools that radiologists use and some
of the tools that you could use to emulate a clinical environment
in your testing scenario and we will also talk about some of
the regulatory aspects of bringing
your machine learning models and AI tools into the real world.
Lastly, we will have an awesome final project for you to try
out all the skills that you will have gained from the previous lessons.
So let's go into a little bit more detail on each one of those.
So in the first lesson,
we'll be going over some clinical fundamentals.
We'll be talking about what are 3D medical images,?
Who are the people that use them and why?
How do CT and MR scanners work?
We'll also see some common tasks related to 3D medical images.
For example, reconstruction of images,
volumetric rendering, and registration.
So in the next lesson,
we will talk little bit about
the 3D medical imaging data formats and the analysis of 3D medical imaging data sets.
We will talk about how 3D medical images are represented.
What are the digital file formats which are used to store and transmit 3D medical images.
Specifically, we will talk about two of the most common ones,
which is the DICOM format,
which is ubiquitous and used by any 3D medical imaging
modality and we will talk about NIFTI file format,
which is more pervasive on the research side of things.
We'll look at how do you load and how to analyze
a 3D medical volume and how to analyze this 3D medical imaging data set.
We will write some Python code and we will look at
some Python libraries that will help you accomplish this task.
Following that, you'll begin to learn how to
apply machine learning for 3D medical imaging,
covering segmentation and classification tasks.
You learn about a radiologist perspective on classification and segmentation problems.
I'll be providing you with some real world use cases.
You'll learn about convolutional filters for
3D medical images and get hands-on with U-net,
an algorithm that's well-known for its ability to perform well in segmentation tasks.
You'll also learn how to evaluate the performance of your algorithms and identify
ways to accurately communicate
that information to the people who will be using the algorithms.
Lastly, in the final lesson of the course,
we will talk about deployment of machine learning algorithms in the real world.
So we will get an introduction into clinical networks and how do they operate,
how do all the imaging modalities that take those images in the clinic,
how do they talk to each other and where
the images stored and what are the archives and actors
involved in the process of transmitting data across the system.
We will talk about what are the good places to integrate
AI algorithms into these complex systems and how would you do that.
We will talk about some of the tools which are used to emulate and debug
such systems and how can you model such a system in your local environment?
How can you try out the algorithm without actually
go into the clinic and disrupting any workflows and then we will
close by covering regulatory landscape and we will talk about how FDA
and other medical device regulators operates and we will talk about the privacy law,
specifically HIPAA in the US and there is a GDPR law
in the European Union and many similar other laws across the world.
We will talk about what do those mean for you, as an AI engineer,
when you are starting to work with medical data and we will
talk about the important points of anonymizing data set.
What does anonymization mean and how would you do that with the medical imaging data set?
In the final project,
you're going to try your hands out on
a real world clinical problem and that's an Alzheimer's dementia,
the most common dementia,
a situation where there's accelerated memory loss.
You'll do this by training
a segmentation model that's going to measure hippocampal volume,
a structure implicated in this disease.
Once you have your algorithm tuned up,
you'll learn how to integrate it into a clinical viewer system,
much as would be used in the real world.
Yeah, so we had a lot of fun building this course.
We hope you enjoy it and will learn a lot from it.
So let's get onto it.